Database Diagram (#375)
buddypress/buddypress: docs/developer/buddypress-database-diagram.md

       | id                |    | id                   |
       | user_id           |    | blog_id              |
       | blog_id           |    | meta_key             |
       +-------------------+    | meta_value           |
                                 +----------------------+
```

```
       +---------------------+    +--------------------+
       | wp_bp_optouts        |    | wp_bp_signups      |
       +---------------------+    +--------------------+
       | id                  |    | signup_id          |
       | email_address_hash   |    | domain             |
       | user_id             |    | path               |
       | email_type          |    | title              |
       | date_modified       |    | user_login         |
       +---------------------+    | user_email         |
                                  | registered         |
                                  | activated          |
                                  | active             |
                                  | activation_key     |
                                  | meta               |
                                  +--------------------+

> ```

Reviewer: These are very interesting schema representations. But I believe we should keep it simple. The image would need to be edited for instance.

> ## Activity Tables
> 
> ### wp_bp_activity
> 
> This table stores all activities (such as posts, comments, updates) made by users in BuddyPress.
> 
> - **Columns:**
>   - `id`: The unique ID for each activity entry.
>   - `user_id`: The ID of the user who performed the activity.
>   - `component`: Specifies which BuddyPress component (e.g., groups, members) the activity is associated with.
>   - `type`: Type of activity (e.g., new post, comment, group creation).
>   - `action`: Human-readable description of the action performed.
>   - `content`: Additional content (text) related to the activity.
>   - `primary_link`: A link to the activity item or content.
>   - `item_id`: ID associated with the primary item (group or other).
>   - `secondary_item_id`: Additional context ID, if applicable.
>   - `date_recorded`: When the activity was recorded.
>   - `hide_sitewide`: Whether the activity is hidden from the sitewide activity stream.
>   - `mptt_left` & `mptt_right`: Used for threaded comments/activities.
>   - `is_spam`: Marks the activity as spam.
> 
> #### Example Query:
> 
> ```sql
> SELECT * FROM wp_bp_activity WHERE user_id = 1;
> ```
> 
> ### wp_bp_activity_meta
> 
> Stores metadata associated with activity entries.
> 
> - **Columns:**
>   - `id`: Meta ID.
>   - `activity_id`: The ID of the associated activity.
>   - `meta_key`: Metadata key.
>   - `meta_value`: Metadata value (usually stored as serialized data).
> 
> ---

Reviewer: I believe this way of describing the schema is the easier to keep updated. I suggest to use tables and include the data type.

```suggestion
# Activity database tables

When first activated, the Activity component creates 2 tables. One to store activity stream items (`{$table_prefix}bp_activity`), the other to store metadata about items (`{$table_prefix}bp_activity_meta`).

> [!NOTE]  
> The `{$table_prefix}` value is `wp_` by default but it can be customized within the your WordPress [wp-config.php file](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/wordpress/wp-config/#table-prefix).

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> The `{$table_prefix}bp_activity` is always created even if the Activity component is not active. BuddyPress is using this table to log members last connexion date/time.

## `{$table_prefix}bp_activity`

This table stores all activities (such as posts, comments, updates) made by users in BuddyPress. It also logs user interactions or community events.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| id | BIGINT | The unique ID for each activity entry. |
| user_id | BIGINT | The ID of the user who performed the activity. |
| component | VARCHAR | Specifies which BuddyPress component (e.g., groups, members) the activity is associated with. |
| type | VARCHAR | Type of activity (e.g., new post, comment, group creation). |
| action | TEXT | Human-readable description of the action performed[^1]. |
| content | LONGTEXT | Main content of the activity. |
| primary_link | TEXT | The link to the activity item[^2]. |
| item_id | BIGINT | ID associated with the primary item (group or other). |
| secondary_item_id | BIGINT | Additional context ID, if applicable. |
| date_recorded | DATETIME | When the activity was recorded. |
| hide_sitewide | TINYINT | Whether the activity is hidden from the sitewide activity stream. |
| mptt_left | INT | Node boundary start for activity or activity comment. |
| mptt_right | INT | Node boundary end for activity or activity comment. |
| is_spam | TINYINT | Whether the activity item is marked as spam.

## `{$table_prefix}bp_activity_meta`

Stores metadata associated with activity entries.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| id | BIGINT | Meta ID |
| activity_id | BIGINT | The ID of the associated activity. |
| meta_key | `VARCHAR` | Metadata key. |
| meta_value | LONGTEXT | Metadata value[^3]. |

[^1]: BuddyPress is re-generating this action during runtime to make it translatable.
[^2]: BuddyPress may re-generate this link at runtime for specific activity types, e.g.: it uses post's permalink for `new_blog_post` typed activities.
[^3]: Arrays or Objects are stored as serialized data.
```

I also think we should split this page to use a specific page for each component inside `docs/developer/components/activity/db-schema.md` for instance.

## Friends Tables

### wp_bp_friends

This table manages the friendship connections between users.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique ID for each friendship connection.
  - `initiator_user_id`: The user who sent the friend request.
  - `friend_user_id`: The user who received the friend request.
  - `is_confirmed`: Whether the friendship has been confirmed (1) or is pending (0).
  - `is_limited`: Whether the friendship has any limitations.
  - `date_created`: Timestamp of when the friendship was initiated.

#### Example Query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM wp_bp_friends WHERE initiator_user_id = 1;
```

> ---

Reviewer: It should be in `docs/developer/components/friends/db-schema.md` and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.

  - `parent_id`: Parent group ID (if applicable).
  - `enable_forum`: Whether the group has forums enabled.
  - `date_created`: When the group was created.

### wp_bp_groups_groupmeta

Stores metadata associated with groups.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique ID for group metadata.
  - `group_id`: The ID of the associated group.
  - `meta_key`: Metadata key.
  - `meta_value`: Metadata value (usually stored as serialized data).

### wp_bp_groups_members

Manages membership of users in groups.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique membership ID.
  - `group_id`: The ID of the group.
  - `user_id`: The ID of the user.
  - `inviter_id`: The ID of the user who invited the member (if applicable).
  - `is_admin`: Whether the user is an admin of the group.
  - `is_mod`: Whether the user is a moderator of the group.
  - `user_title`: The role or title of the user within the group.
  - `date_modified`: When the membership was last modified.
  - `is_confirmed`: Whether the membership is confirmed.
  - `is_banned`: Whether the user is banned from the group.
  - `invite_sent`: Whether an invitation has been sent.

#### Example Query:

```sql
SELECT * FROM wp_bp_groups_members WHERE group_id = 2;
```

> ---

Reviewer: It should be in `docs/developer/components/groups/db-schema.md` and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.

## Messaging Tables

### wp_bp_messages_messages

Stores private messages sent between users.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique message ID.
  - `thread_id`: ID of the conversation thread.
  - `sender_id`: User ID of the message sender.
  - `subject`: Subject of the message.
  - `message`: The actual message content.
  - `date_sent`: When the message was sent.

### wp_bp_messages_meta

Stores metadata associated with messages.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique meta ID.
  - `message_id`: The ID of the associated message.
  - `meta_key`: Metadata key.
  - `meta_value`: Metadata value.

> ---

Reviewer: It should be in `docs/developer/components/messages/db-schema.md` and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.

⚠️ the `wp_bp_messages_recipients` table is missing

## Notifications Tables

### wp_bp_notifications

Stores notifications for user actions.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique notification ID.
  - `user_id`: The ID of the user receiving the notification.
  - `item_id`: Primary item related to the notification.
  - `secondary_item_id`: Secondary item, if applicable.
  - `component_name`: Name of the BuddyPress component (e.g., groups, messages).
  - `component_action`: Action triggering the notification (e.g., group invite, message received).
  - `date_notified`: When the notification was created.
  - `is_new`: Whether the notification is new.

### wp_bp_notifications_meta

Stores metadata for notifications.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique meta ID.
  - `notification_id`: The ID of the associated notification.
  - `meta_key`: Metadata key.
  - `meta_value`: Metadata value.

> ---

Reviewer: It should be in docs/developer/components/notifications/db-schema.md and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique profile data ID.
  - `field_id`: ID of the profile field.
  - `user_id`: ID of the user.
  - `value`: Value of the profile field for the user.
  - `last_updated`: Timestamp of the last update.

### wp_bp_xprofile_fields

Stores the fields available in extended profiles.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique field ID.
  - `group_id`: ID of the group the field belongs to.
  - `parent_id`: Parent field ID (for hierarchical fields).
  - `type`: The type of field (e.g., text, checkbox, select).
  - `name`: The name of the field.
  - `description`: Description of the field.
  - `is_required`: Whether the field is required.
  - `is_default_option`: Whether this is the default option.
  - `field_order`: The order of the field.
  - `option_order`: The order of field options.
  - `order_by`: The sorting method for the field.
  - `can_delete`: Whether the field can be deleted.

### wp_bp_xprofile_groups

Stores groups of profile fields.

- **Columns:**
  - `id`: Unique group ID.
  - `name`: Name of the group.
  - `description`: Description of the group.
  - `group_order`: The order of the group.
  - `can_delete`: Whether the group can be deleted.

> ---

Reviewer: It should be in docs/developer/components/groups/db-schema.md and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.

## Other BuddyPress Tables

- **wp_bp_user_blogs**: Stores user blog associations in multisite.
- **wp_bp_user_blogs_blogmeta**: Metadata for user blogs.
- **wp_bp_invitations**: Stores invitations sent by users.

> - **wp_bp_optouts**: Stores opt-out preferences for users who do not want to receive emails.

Reviewer: It should be in docs/developer/components/blogs/db-schema.md and use a table like the what I've written for the Activity above.
